# April 20

Working on an initial implementation for surfacing "more like this" resources. After surveying what is available in rust land it appears that [Tantivy][] + [Tique][] libraries would allow us to extract top terms from the arbitrary text input which could be used to query index to find similar documents _(which seems to be inspired by [Lucene MoreLikeThis][])_.

Integrating two libraries into code base turned out not as straightforward as I'd wish for. Neither is well documented. It is unclear how one would create an index and then reuse it between multiple sessions.

Another problem I'm running into is there seems to be no way to have document field that is not part of index and isn't a number type, which is a problem as we need to map document back to resource URL.

As it turns out documentation was outdated. Current version seems to have bytes fields which according to source comments:

> Bytes field are not searchable and are only used as fast field, to associate any kind of payload to a document.

Attaching URLs to the document using bytes fields.

Another problem is that documents to index are added using index writer, and there must be only one writer at a time.  This is a problem because our server uses thread pool, so access to the index writer needs to be managed.

Found a [recommendation for having multithreaded index writer][multithreaded index writer] architecture in the tique repository.

> ### Indexing from different threads.
>
> It is fairly common to have to index from different threads.
>
> Tantivy forbids to create more than one `IndexWriter` at a time.
>
> This `IndexWriter` itself has its own multithreaded layer, so managing your own indexing threads will not help. However, it can still be useful for some applications.
>
> For instance, if preparing documents to send to tantivy before indexing is the bottleneck of your application, it is reasonable to have multiple threads.
>
> Another very common reason to want to index from multiple threads, is implementing a webserver with CRUD capabilities. The server framework will most likely handle request from different threads.
>
> The recommended way to address both of these use case is to wrap your `IndexWriter` into a `Arc<RwLock<IndexWriter>>`.
>
> While this is counterintuitive, adding and deleting documents do not require mutability over the `IndexWriter`, so several threads will be able to do this operation concurrently.
>
> The example below does not represent an actual real-life use case (who would spawn thread to index a single document?), but aims at demonstrating the mechanism that makes indexing from several threads possible.

As I am finally wiring things up am realizing that things do not exactly fit well with our model.

Working assumption was that server would not store document content in the index, it would just store search index for it. If so when we search for similar resources we can find URLs for those resources (and maybe map those to their descriptions stored in our sqlite database) but that would not really explain how these resources are similar. 



[Tique]:https://crates.io/crates/tique "Utilities to drive a tantivy search index"

[tantivy]:https://crates.io/crates/tantivy "Full text search engine library written in Rust."
[Lucene MoreLikeThis]:https://lucene.apache.org/solr/guide/6_6/morelikethis.html
[multithreaded index writer]:https://github.com/tantivy-search/tantivy/blob/master/examples/multiple_producer.rs