# weekly plan

## last week
 * xcrpt prototype mostly complete
 * no upload yet

## this week

### xcrpt next step
ipfs upload using pinata.cloud

how is this interesting / relevant?
 - bring all the pieces of your research together under one roof
 - things tend to disappear
 - somebody mentioning something from before / search

your database of knowledge, and then you can query it
 - where is your knowledge now?
   - where's gozala's knowledge now?
     - notion
     - markdown files on local machine & push to github repo
     - github issues
     - gave up on bookmarks
     - various topic-based slacks & twitters
     - keybase?
       - [p] who and how?
       - gordon, jordan & folks
       - just use it like slack
       - i like that it's E2E encrypted
       - only ones who try to solve social graph w/encryption
       - functionally like slack
     - muse
       - i have a board where i put things in a visual space with notes written on top
     - pinterest
       - very painful way: pin an image from the page and write a long comment w/page quotes
     - emails are such a huge source of information
     - tried to use pushpin but it's hard to use it when you're alone? and sometimes it stops working.
     - if pushpin stored actual files on a disk i would be pretty...
     - oh and the actual filesystem, organized on disk
       - (i find the organization problematic)
       - documents folder, synced with icloud
       - kitchen project
         - bunch of pdfs from planner, my notes in there too
         - calculations of costs & so on
         - bunch of PDFs and markdown with some images
         - pdfs mostly printouts of webpages (only reliable way to retain)
       - navigation of FS is a pain
     - web archives
       - safari does save things as a Web Archive if you want it to
     - workflowy but i gave up on it. prescribes a structure... hard to keep that going
   - worst piece of all of this is that it's impossible to collaborate 
     - everything is in different places and mappings aren't clear
     - hard to share even with family member like wife
   - [i] how would I plan a trip somewhere?
    - i usually use tripit, but that's not great
    - it sort of works, i shouldn't complain too much
    - email based, tons of email from booking places
    - pdfs doesn't give you mapping, tripit puts you in a view that is comprehensible
    - similar off-the-grid getaway constraints
      - time in cars, places in airbnb was painful
      - getting feedback from others was really painful


### notes from szymon
- I'm not sure how I feel about the idea of "feed" here, I think "feeds" put me in the mindset of new being more important than old, where in collecting reference material/annotation, time of collection is probably not relevant, but there's some kind of strength of the given material
- you mention Gordon's website which is not so much a feed of reference websites, but moreso interlinked ideas - I'm doing this in private, happy to give you a tour, there's a lot of findings here, but I'm not sure if this can be done collaboratively - when I make notes for my own ideas I use different language than when sharing information with others; that language might be not accessible to others at all, since I note down things for my own conceptual landscape, and don't care to explain in writing things I already understand/have a feeling of - but that's needed when sharing knowledge with others - I feel like there's a huge difference with thinking your own thoughts (with help of software), and thinking collective thoughts (with help of software) - you should maybe think about prioritising one of those
- what I found in my studio is that reference material is often brought "with us" - when designing complex UIs we often put cropped reference images and hand-drawn sketches in figma canvas, next to the thing we're trying to solve - so maybe a way to do that quickly/easily (not necessarily figma of course) could be a thing to explore?
- for sharing article-like research material, for me at least, this is a two-step process, I first collect for example in Pocket, then read through and think about, and only if relevant, share with others - so there's some act of curating between collecting and sharing
- a relevant article on are.na: https://www.are.na/blog/willa-koerner
- for collecting, what I found with Archivist, is that freezedry + page screenshot is a great combination, as often I remember the look of the website where I read something moreso than the page title
- another idea from Archivist might be to build a cli tool to access the data (even offline) so users can write shell scripts/integrations on their own (for example I have one where I get ten random images for given query, so I don't get lost in my thousands of referenes)
- "Why is a Slack channel so effective for collaboration?" - I'm not sure I believe that :slightly_smiling_face: (edited) 

### peter's next steps
understand more people
 - szymon
 - martinkl
 - kevin
 - robin sloane
who else is good at this stuff?
 - gordon

how organized & on top of things do you feel?
where do you you keep information and what do you keep?
how do you find things?
what are the frustrations & shortcomings in your current approach?

### irakli's next steps
get xcrpt in shape
store files
fix freezedry
 - cors problems
 - stylesheet problems
scroll to excerpt
use xcr.pt backend for nice URLs
work on performance

## goals for the week
1) get xcrpt useful (demo on thursday for the lab)
   - store data in IPFS via pinata 
   - freezedry has issues
     - pvh supports work on freezedry
   - progress bar
     - yup, sounds good
   - things feel slow because freezedry is doing hard work & consuming resources
     - pvh agrees work on this is useful. feeling is important.
   - URL vs tab? tab might be slow, URL is fast
   - peter to finish configuring domain names
2) understand the problem domain better through interviews
3) decide on a next thing for next week
